---
layout: default
published: false
title: Measuring Startup Success by Driving Product Development with KPIs
abstract: Adding features for the sake of adding new features is a waste of time, energy, and resources. Use predefined goals and KPIs to focus product development effort to ensure you are working towards success.
---

bq(info). Read part 1 on this topic: "Measuring Startup Success by Defining Key Performance Indicators":{% post_url 2012-08-08-measuring-startup-success-by-defining-key-performance-indicators-kpis %}

h2. Using your KPI goals to guide product development

I'm going to make the assumption that you are measuring/tracking the metrics you have defined. If you can't, stop what you're doing and work on being able to gather the data immediately. 

bq(warning). Don't add features just for the sake of adding features (the faux-progress trap). 

Going back to our auction site example, we look at our weekly report and see our goal is to have 10,000 users creating 10 listings per month for a $1 listing fee, but we have 10,000 users creating 2 listings per month for a $.50 transaction fee. We immediately see that we've done a good job acquiring customers, but our customers are not listing as many items as we want them to a month, and they're also not spending as much as we ould like per transaction.

Based on the data, we focus our product development efforts on increasing the fees generated per listing and the number of listings per user. We hypothesize that add-on services like photo hosting will increase listing transactions fees by another $0.50, and that including in product messaging about minimalism leading to happiness will drive users to declutter their lives by selling off their junk (and hence list more items.)

Alternatively, you could change your assumptions altogether and go full throttle on acquiring more customers, if you believe that it will be more cost effective than getting customers to post 8 more listings a month. You have to be careful that changing these assumptions doesn't invalidate your business model or projections (is the total addressable market big enough to support your new model?)

h2. Conclusion

Your challenge is to figure out what defines success for your startup. Maybe virality is important to you and you need to determine what user actions tend to drive your viral coefficient upwards. Or your business model assumes that you can successfully acquire customers cheaper than your competitor with better SEO. Maybe your goal is your customer's success and word-of-mouth will grow your business (measured by a high Net Promoter Score.)

It could be a combination of many things across different areas. The point is, if you cannot define success for an area of your business, how can you make decisions about where to spend your resources, or know the work you are doing is beneficial at all.

bq(info). Beware of the premature pivot. Just because you've hit a bump in the road doesn't mean you should pivot. Subscribe to get the next post on the premature pivot trap.
