---
layout: default
published: true
title: Getting Started With Jekyll
abstract: what happens if the abstract spans multiple lines?
  can i pipe it?
  no, but I can tab it!
---

Tri-tip pancetta venison, meatball boudin speck turducken ball tip beef fatback sausage. Rump cow flank pastrami, leberkas bresaola drumstick andouille meatloaf boudin. Shank beef turkey, pork loin andouille capicola t-bone flank tri-tip drumstick. Beef beef ribs ham hock, filet mignon pork ground round hamburger shoulder kielbasa speck biltong sausage. Pancetta chicken ham hock, ham swine ground round flank fatback pig sirloin sausage pork loin. Brisket cow speck pork, t-bone shank strip steak tenderloin ham hock. Capicola meatball jowl, short loin frankfurter ham hock sausage bresaola fatback beef pork chop shank t-bone boudin.

{% highlight ruby %}
class Date
  class << self
    alias :_ruby_parse :_parse

    def _parse(str, comp=true)
      if I18n.locale.to_sym == :en
        _ruby_parse str, comp
      else
        map = month_map I18n.locale
        str = str.gsub /[^\s\/\d-]+/ do |month|
          map[month.normalize] || month
        end
        _ruby_parse str, comp
      end
    end

    private

    def month_map locale
      @@month_map ||= { }
      @@month_map[locale] ||= make_month_map(locale)
    end

    def make_month_map locale
      abbrev_months_en = I18n.t "date.abbr_month_names", :locale => :en
      abbrev_months_local = I18n.t "date.abbr_month_names", :locale => locale
      full_months_local = I18n.t "date.month_names", :locale => locale
      result = { }
      abbrev_months_en.each_with_index do |mon, i|
        if mon
          result[abbrev_months_local[i].normalize] = mon
          result[full_months_local[i].normalize] = mon
        end
      end
      result
    end
  end
end
{% endhighlight %}

Strip steak spare ribs rump pork chop, tongue turducken tenderloin drumstick bacon sirloin kielbasa frankfurter. Fatback venison tenderloin shank meatball swine. Andouille bresaola speck, spare ribs ribeye frankfurter pig kielbasa sirloin pastrami meatloaf venison turducken shoulder tongue. Leberkas tri-tip venison bacon jerky strip steak. Fatback pig pastrami, tri-tip tongue cow swine. Fatback ham andouille jerky, bresaola prosciutto beef t-bone pastrami ribeye.

h2. Subheading

Tongue venison speck rump, capicola pork belly drumstick chuck bresaola pig shoulder chicken strip steak shank spare ribs. Corned beef chuck pork hamburger venison. T-bone swine beef flank, beef ribs bresaola tri-tip speck turkey capicola chicken pork. Ham hock jerky corned beef chicken, tongue flank bacon filet mignon pastrami sirloin ham rump turkey cow. Beef shank filet mignon boudin biltong corned beef spare ribs, short ribs prosciutto tenderloin frankfurter beef ribs andouille flank.

Venison ball tip fatback pork chop beef. Pork chop pancetta pork chuck, short ribs ball tip leberkas rump. Tail kielbasa filet mignon chuck, corned beef cow jerky bresaola short loin. Fatback tri-tip rump beef ribs shankle. Speck ground round sirloin shank short ribs, chuck jowl.

Beef ribs boudin filet mignon, chuck swine pastrami strip steak pig. Tongue tail filet mignon, bresaola drumstick ball tip pork loin. Capicola cow pork loin ham. Flank chicken pancetta prosciutto short ribs hamburger ham beef ribs, pastrami jerky leberkas. Flank bacon pancetta shoulder corned beef. Drumstick salami meatloaf pancetta. Short ribs t-bone meatloaf turducken.

