---
layout: default
published: false
title: Bump's Amazing PR
abstract:
---
other possible titles

* Title: WTF BUMP?
* Title: Why are we still talking about bump?
* Title: Bump must have the best PR ever

A friend of mine recently moved out to the Silicon Valley. We were talking about his recent move and he told me, “You’d really like it out here, you need to move here.” Being a software startup wannabe-entrepreneur, he wouldn’t have been the first person to try to convince me to move out west.

While I am stubborn, I always try to get people’s opinions on just why I should make a cross country move.

“Because, they get it out here. There ‘get’ Social Media.”

I don’t actually remember the exact phrasing/reason he gave me, but it you could insert any internet startup buzzword in there and my point would be the same.

Stubborn has always been hesitant to move out to the valley for many reasons. Mostly, because no one has been able to come up with a single articulate argument that didn’t boil down to “just because.” That’s another topic altogether.

Back on point, while reading Fast Company (which I used to love reading but now I find it rare that I stop to read anything in it) on my bi-weekly commute from Boston back to Chicago, Fast Company listed Bump as one of the top 10 most innovative mobile companies.

Really?  Bump?  Is this 2006?

Now, I know I’m really cynical about most things, but I don’t understand how Bump is relevant at all?  It’s been several years since I first remember hearing about Bump, and I swear I’ve never seen anyone ever use it, or every ask me if I want to bump to exchange information.

That either means that in the valley, everyone must be paperless and walk around bumping phones instead of exchanging business cards. (I’ve anecdotally heard that Square doesn’t use business cards because they don’t believe in paper.) Or maybe, *sarcasm* Bump is so innovative, that I don’t even know that I’ve been using it for the last 5 years.

