---
layout: default
published: true
title: Measuring Startup Success by Defining Key Performance Indicators (KPI)
abstract: Startups face many challenges on the road to success, and we all dream about having a successful startup. However, founders typically do not define what the success means beyond the very broad and generic "get a lot of users" or "make a lot of money."
---

Startups face many challenges on the road to success, and we all dream about having a successful startup. However, founders typically do not define what success is beyond a very broad and generic "get a lot of users" or "make a lot of money."

_If you cannot define success, how can you possibly achieve it?_

h2. Begin with the end in mind

Envisioning where you want your startup to be in the future enables you to hypothesize the steps you need to take to get there. Just like your resumé, the more specific you can be, the better. For example, "Get lots of users" is not as specific as "Get 10,000 paying customers in 2 years".

I'm not proposing that you go out and write a 100-page business plan, but you should be able to come up with a "back of a napkin" projection for your startup including projections for both costs and revenue. You can also use this projection to sanity check your assumptions. If it's going to take 10,000 paying customers to be sustainable, and your total addressable market is 15,000 customers, you may want to reconsider. 

As a side note, I used to get really annoyed when pitch decks talked about acquiring 1% of the market. However, I now think of it as a combination of A) getting 1% of the market is *really* hard, and B) if getting 1% of the market would not make a sustainable startup, then you should reconsider the business model altogether.

bq. So, think of the "1% of the market" calculation as quick gut check.

h2. Defining your Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)

Now that you know where you are trying to get to, let's break it down a little bit further. Exactly how are you going to make your projections come true, or, in other words, how are you going to know you are on the right track?

Let's pretend your business is transactional, say, an eBay-like auction/listing service. Your projections call for $100k of revenue per month at the end of year one. Your projection may be something like:

bq. # of users * # of transactions per user per month * revenue per transaction

In MBA-language these would be your Key Performance Indicators for revenue. You likely should have KPIs for other areas of your startup as well (support, marketing, customer acquisition, etc).

Hopefully, your projection was based on a pilot, beta, information, or research of some kind, which led you to reasonably believe your new product can support:

bq. 10,000 customers * 10 paid listings per customer per month * $1 per transaction = $100k/month.

If you're a social networking app and going viral is a critical part of your strategy, you'll define success as the type of actions a user takes on your site to achieve a viral coefficient greater than 1. The hypothesis being something like, if a user posts more than 5 messages and uploads 2 photos, they are likely to invite 10 friends to also sign up, 2 of which will sign up.

bq(info). Stay tuned for the next post, using your KPIs to drive product development.
