---
layout: default
published: false
title: Measuring Startup Success by Driving Product Development
abstract: Startups face many challenges on the road to success, and we all dream about having a successful startup. However, founders typically do not define what the success means beyond the very broad and generic "get a lot of users" or "make a lot of money."
---

h2. Driving product development

I'm going to make the assumption at this point that you can measure/track the metrics you have defined. If you can't, I would stop everything else you're doing, and work on that immediately.

Now that you have these goals, you can use them to guide product development. Don't add features just for the sake of adding features (the faux-progress trap). Let's go back to our auction site example. We look at our weekly report and see that we were supposed to have 10,000 users creating 10 listings per month for a $1 listing fee, but we have 10,000 users creating 2 listings per month for a $.50 transaction fee. We immediately see that we've done a good job acquiring customers, but our average customer is not listing as many items as we want them to a month, and they're transaction fees are short of our goals as well. 

Based on that data, you can focus and drive product decisions in an attempt to increase the number of listings and the fees generated per listing. For example, maybe add-on services like photo hosting increases listing transactions by another $.50, or you including help/messaging in the product about reasons they should declutter their lives (and hence list more items.)

Alternatively, you could change your assumptions altogether and go full throttle on acquiring more customers if you believe that it will be more cost effective than getting customers to post 8 more listings a month. You have to be careful that changing these assumptions doesn't invalidate your business model or projections (are there enough total users to support your new model?)

h2. Conclusion

Your challenge is to now go figure out what define's success for your startup. Maybe virality is important to you, or that you can successfully acquire customers cheaper than your competitor by SEO. It could be a combination of many things across different areas. The point is, if you cannot define success for an area of your business, how do you know that the work you are doing is beneficial at all.



